.nh
.TH hew 1 "hew" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
hew \- a minimal coding agent (TUI)


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhew\fP [\fB-p\fP \fItask\fP] [\fB--model\fP \fIname\fP] [\fB--base-url\fP \fIurl\fP] [\fB--max-steps\fP \fIn\fP] [\fB--load-messages\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fB--event-log\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fB--trajectory\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fB-v\fP|\fB--verbose\fP] [\fB--version\fP]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhew\fP is a minimal coding agent with a terminal user interface (TUI), built with bubbletea. It queries LLMs and executes bash commands in an iterative loop. It supports both Anthropic and OpenAI-compatible APIs.

.PP
In default mode, \fBhew\fP starts the TUI. With \fB-p\fP, it runs a single task and exits. When stdout is not a TTY, \fBhew\fP falls back to plain-text rendering.

.PP
A plain CLI variant is available as \fBhu\fP(1).

.PP
Project-specific instructions are loaded from an \fBAGENTS.md\fP file in the current working directory, if present.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--prompt\fP \fItask\fP
Run the given task and exit. Without this flag, hew starts the TUI.

.TP
\fB--model\fP \fIname\fP
LLM model identifier (default: claude-sonnet-4-20250514).

.TP
\fB--base-url\fP \fIurl\fP
LLM API endpoint (default: https://api.anthropic.com). If the URL contains "anthropic.com", the Anthropic adapter is used; otherwise, the OpenAI-compatible adapter is used.

.TP
\fB--max-steps\fP \fIn\fP
Maximum agent iterations. 0 uses the default of 100.

.TP
\fB--load-messages\fP \fIfile\fP
Read a JSON array of messages from \fIfile\fP and prepend them to the conversation before starting. The format matches \fB--trajectory\fP output, so one agent's trajectory can seed another agent's context.

.TP
\fB--event-log\fP \fIfile\fP
Write every agent event as a JSONL line to \fIfile\fP\&. Each line is a JSON object with "type" and "payload" fields. Uses O_APPEND for atomic writes, safe to tail from another process.

.TP
\fB--trajectory\fP \fIfile\fP
After the task finishes, write the full message history as pretty-printed JSON to \fIfile\fP\&. Written before exit, even on error. Only applies to single-task mode (\fB-p\fP), not the REPL.

.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP
Show internal decisions (queries, parsing, working directory).

.TP
\fB--continue\fP
Resume the most recent session for the current project directory.

.TP
\fB--list-sessions\fP
List all saved sessions for the current project directory.

.TP
\fB--disable-planning-workflow\fP
Omit the planning workflow instructions from the system prompt.

.TP
\fB--version\fP
Print version and exit.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBHEW_API_KEY\fP
API key for the LLM provider (required).

.TP
\fBANTHROPIC_API_KEY\fP
Fallback API key when using the Anthropic endpoint.


.SH FILES
.TP
\fBAGENTS.md\fP
If present in the current directory, its contents are appended to the system prompt as project-specific instructions.


.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fP
Success.

.TP
\fB1\fP
Error (no API key, step limit reached, etc.).


.SH AUTHOR
Brian Cosgrove cosgroveb@gmail.com
\[la]mailto:cosgroveb@gmail.com\[ra]


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhu\fP(1)
